# Customized DeepMind AlphaFold v.2.2.0 

A brief description of your project goes here.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

Provide a more detailed overview of your project. Include information such as the purpose, key features, and any relevant background information.

## Features

- Use custom PDB as template
- Save MSA to a file
- Generate "single_chain" (no MSA) predictions
- Compute interface pLDDT of AlphaFold predictions

## Installation

Install alphaFold requirements in a conda environment. Here's a useful resource if you prefer to install AlphaFold without Docker: https://github.com/kalininalab/alphafold_non_docker

## Usage

### Use custom PDB as template

#### Generate template alignment file

AlphaFold has the capability to use up to four PDBs as templates per chain. The script included in the `generate_alignment_demo` folder demonstrates how to generate an alignment file to use one PDB as a chain template.

The alignment file instructs the program on how to map chain sequences from AlphaFold models to residues in the template/PDB. The script is adapted from [`predict_utils.py`](https://github.com/phbradley/alphafold_finetune/blob/main/predict_utils.py) of the [alphafold_finetune](https://github.com/phbradley/alphafold_finetune) repository.

##### Usage

```shell
python generate_per_chain_template_alignment.py <pdb_path> <reference_sequence> <output_tsv_file>
```

- `pdb_path`: The path to the template PDB. We recommend using an absolute path so that the program can retrieve the file for template featurization at runtime, even when running AlphaFold from different directories.
- `reference_sequence`: The sequence of the chain you input to AlphaFold.
- `output_tsv_file`: The path to the desired output TSV file.

For example:

```shell
python generate_per_chain_template_alignment.py demo.pdb QVQLQQSGAELMKPGASVKISCKATGYTFSGHWIEWVKQRPGHGLEWIGEILPGSGNIHYNEKFKGKATFAADTSSNTAYMQLSSLTSEDSAVYYCARLGTTAVERDWYFDVWGAGTTVTVSL demo.align.tsv
```

We have included the resulting `demo.align.tsv` file in `expected.demo.align.tsv` for your reference.


### Save MSA to a file


### Generate "single_chain" (no MSA) predictions


### Compute interface pLDDT score of an AlphaFold prediction

This script calculates the average pLDDT score for interface residues of a protein complex prediction generated by AlphaFold. This Perl script requires the following inputs: a PDB (Protein Data Bank) file, identifiers for two sets of chains in the protein complex (chns_a and chns_b), a distance cutoff, and an optional argument for the lowest I-pLDDT score. This last parameter will be used when no interface residues were identified within the distance cutoff across the sets of chains. The script works by identifying all residues within each set of chains that fall within the cutoff distance of the other set of chains. Residues will be considered "interface residue" if their non-hydrogen atom is within the specified distance cutoff from non-hydrogen atoms of any residues in the other set of chains. For each identified interface residue, the script records its pLDDT score. In cases where no interface residues are detected within the stipulated distance cutoff, the script defaults to a score of -1, unless a different score is input by the user. Ultimately, the script outputs the I-pLDDT score, which is the average pLDDT score of all identified interface residues.

#### Usage

```
perl get_interface_plddt.pl <pdb_file> <chns_a> <chns_b> <distance_cutoff> [lowest_iplddt_score]
```

By default, complexes without interface atomic contacts within the specified distance cutoff will be scored as '-1.00'. This default score can be modified by providing the 'lowest_iplddt_score' argument.


#### Example

For example, if the pdb file is `ranked_0.pdb`, and the interface is formed by the antibody and the antigen chains (assuming this is an antibody-antigen complex prediction), the antibody chains are `A` and `B`, the antigen chain is `C`, and the interface distance is defined as `4 Å`, the command would be:

```
perl get_interface_plddt.pl ranked_0.pdb AB C 4
```

## Contributing

Explain how others can contribute to your project. Provide guidelines for submitting bug reports, feature requests, or pull requests.

## License
Apache License 2.0

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank [alphafold](https://github.com/deepmind/alphafold/), [alphafold_finetune](https://github.com/phbradley/alphafold_finetune), [ColabFold](https://github.com/sokrypton/ColabFold) teams for developing and distributing the code. The content inside alphafold/ folder is modified from [alphafold/](https://github.com/deepmind/alphafold/releases/tag/v2.2.0) of [alphafold](https://github.com/deepmind/alphafold/) repository. The featurization of custom template is modified from [predict_utils.py](https://github.com/phbradley/alphafold_finetune/blob/main/predict_utils.py) of [alphafold_finetune](https://github.com/phbradley/alphafold_finetune). Chain break introduction, as well as making mock template feature steps are modified from [batch.py](https://github.com/sokrypton/ColabFold/blob/aa7284b56c7c6ce44e252787011a6fd8d2817f85/colabfold/batch.py) of [ColabFold](https://github.com/sokrypton/ColabFold).


Some functionalities include 
1. use of user-defined PDB templates
2. save msa to file

